# BTP
Design and Developement of Pneumatic Artificial Muscles for upper limb Rehablitation
People with upper limb paralysis or amputation face a plethora of difficulties in carrying out their day-to-day activities. Many a time, it has been found that they are vulnerable to low self-esteem, depression, and social anxiety as they are dependent on others for most of their daily activities. There are varieties of exoskeleton suits available in the market which provides support to their limbs such that they can carry out basic daily activities on their own. But most of these exoskeleton suits use electromechanical actuators for their operations which makes them very bulky and, not to mention, much costlier because of which many people having disabilities cannot afford them. This paper aims to enable the use of pneumatic artificial muscles (PAM) as an alternative to electromechanical actuators to make a 3 DOF exoskeleton for an upper limb to make it considerably light in weight and much more affordable than the current market variants. The main focus of this report is to study various PAMs and perform tests to check their physical properties to see whether we can develop and fabricate a 3 DOF exoskeleton for upper limb rehabilitation using PAMs, making it far more lighter and affordable than the current market options. Furthermore, focus has also been given to the study of trajectory planning, forward kinematics and inverse kinematics of the human limb where we simulated the motion of human arm in MATLAB environment and with the study of forces in Simulink environment. This report contains the design and fabrication of Mckibben style Pneumatic muscles and its behaviour under various loads and various pressure and how the contraction changes with respect to length. Lastly, the thesis contains the implementation of pneumatic artificial muscles in elbow joint of a dummy and fabrication of a 3D printed exoskeleton model for shoulder joints and their analysis.

